1) What are the three types of glial cells found in the CNS?
A) Astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells
B) Schwann cells, oligodendrocytes, ependymal cells
C) Astrocytes, Schwann cells, oligodendrocytes
D) Microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes

2) Which glial cell type is responsible for myelinating nerves in the CNS?
A) Astrocytes
B) Oligodendrocytes
C) Ependymal cells
D) Microglia

3) Which type of brain tumor is the most common?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Meningioma
C) Metastasis
D) Pilocytic astrocytoma

4) What are the three types of small blue round cell tumors?
A) PNET, embryonal tumors, lymphomas
B) PNET, astrocytomas, ependymomas
C) Medulloblastomas, germ cell tumors, gliomas
D) Medulloblastomas, PNETs, lymphomas

5) What is the difference between a well-circumscribed astrocytoma and an infiltrating/diffuse astrocytoma?
A) The former is easier to remove than the latter.
B) The former is more common in children than the latter.
C) The former is a grade III tumor while the latter is a grade II tumor.
D) The former is a grade I tumor while the latter is a grade II tumor.
E) The former is a grade I tumor, which is easier to remove, while the latter is a grade II tumor which is comparatively more difficult to remove

6) What is the most common primary malignant CNS tumor?
A) Astrocytoma
B) Metastasis
C) Glioblastoma
D) Oligodendroglioma

7) Which genetic marker is associated with primary glioblastoma?
A) EGFR mutation
B) TP53 mutation
C) IDH1/2 mutation
D) 1q/19q co-deletion

8) What is the difference between a gemistocytic astrocytoma and a regular astrocytoma?
A) Gemistocytic astrocytomas are grade III tumors while regular astrocytomas are grade II tumors.
B) Gemistocytic astrocytomas are less likely to infiltrate than regular astrocytomas.
C) Gemistocytic astrocytomas are a type of oligodendroglioma while regular astrocytomas are a type of astrocytoma.
D) Gemistocytic astrocytomas are a type of astrocytoma that is likely to progress to a higher grade.

9) What is the most common type of meningioma?
A) Atypical meningioma
B) Anaplastic/malignant meningioma
C) Transitional meningioma
D) Milk

10) What is the primary location for ependymomas in pediatric populations?
A) Cerebral white matter
B) Cortex
C) Midline (pineal and suprasellar)
D) Periventricular

11) Which type of glioma is indicative of infiltrating/diffuse glioma (grade-2)?
A) Astrocytoma
B) Oligodendroglioma
C) Ependymoma
D) All of them

13) Which tumor type is most common in adults?
A) Medulloblastoma
B) Ependymoma
C) Astrocytic neoplasms
D) PNETs

14) What is the most common brain tumor in children?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Meningioma
C) Ependymoma
D) Posterior fossa neoplasms

16) What is the difference between a well-circumscribed astrocytoma and an anaplastic astrocytoma?
A) The former is a grade II tumor while the latter is a grade III tumor.
B) The former is easier to remove than the latter.
C) The former is a type of oligodendroglioma while the latter is a type of astrocytoma.
D) The former is a type of ependymoma while the latter is a type of glioblastoma.
E) The former is a grade I tumor and easier to remove while the latter is a grade III tumor.

19) What are the four prognostic groups for medulloblastoma?
A) WNT (beta-catenin) mutation, SHH mutation, group 3, group 4
B) WNT (beta-catenin) mutation, SHH mutation, group 3, MYC amp w/ 17p del
C) SHH mutation, group 3, group 4, MYC amp w/ 17p del
D) WNT (beta-catenin) mutation, group 3

20) What is the marker for secondary glioblastoma?
A) EGFR mutation
B) TP53 mutation
C) IDH1/2 mutation
D) 1q/19q co-deletion
E) TP53 mutation and IDH1/2 mutation

21) Which type of tumor has a cyst with a mural nodule and is commonly found in the posterior fossa of children?
A) Medulloblastoma
B) Meningioma
C) Ependymoma
D) Pilocytic astrocytoma

22) Which glial cell type is the most numerous in the CNS and controls the BBB and blood flow?
A) Astrocytes
B) Oligodendrocytes
C) Ependymal cells
D) Microglia

24) What is the primary location for ependymomas in adult populations?
A) Cerebral white matter
B) Spinal cord
C) Midline (pineal and suprasellar)
D) Periventricular

25) What is the marker for children with cranipharyngiomas?
A) Beta-catenin mutation "adamantinomatous"
B) BRAF V600E mutation "papillary"
C) TP53 mutation
D) IDH1/2 mutation

26) Which type of tumor is highly malignant, found in young children, and presents similarly to medulloblastoma and is marked by the INI1 protein?
A) AT/RT
B) PNET
C) Germ cell tumor
D) Chordoma

27) Which type of tumor is derived from Rathke's pouch and is located at the pituitary gland?
A) Glioma
B) Meningioma
C) Ependymoma
D) Craniopharyngioma

28) What is the appearance of a craniopharyngioma?
A) Whorls and psammoma bodies
B) Extra-axial and dura-based
C) Cystic and looks like motor oil
D) Butterfly lesion with ring enhancements

29) Which tumor type is more common in the temporal lobe and in younger patients/young adults?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Medulloblastoma
C) Neuronal/glioneuronal neoplasms
D) Germ cell tumor

30) Which type of diffuse glioma has a better prognosis due to a better response to treatment and has a diffuse glial with IDH mutation and 1q/19q co-deletion?
A) Astrocytoma
B) Gemistocytic astrocytoma
C) Oligodendroglioma
D) Ependymoma

33) What is the function of ependymal cells in the central nervous system?
A) Myelination
B) Blood-brain barrier control
C) Cerebrospinal fluid homeostasis and waste clearance
D) Immune defense

37) What are the high-grade indications for brain tumors?
A) Calcification and cyst formation
B) Presence of psammoma bodies and intranuclear pseudoinclusions
C) Mitotic activity, vascular proliferation, and necrosis
D) Whorls and cystic appearance

40) What is the survival rate for primary glioblastoma?
A) 1-2 years
B) 2-3 years
C) 3-4 years
D) More than 5 years

41) Which gene is associated with resistance to TMZ treatment but better response if its methylated?
A) EGFR gene
B) TP53 gene
C) IDH1/2 gene
D) MGMT gene

42) What are the different types of Germ Cell Tumors?
A) Midline: pineal and suprasellar mass in child or young adult
B) Metastasis to the brain
C) Bone/soft tissue CNS neoplasm
D) Skull base mass

44) What are the characteristic features of Meningioma?
A) Whorls, psammoma bodies, intranuclear pseudoinclusions
B) Calcification, fried egg appearance
C) Butterfly lesion with ring enhancements
D) Large cell type

45) What are the poor prognostic findings associated with Meningioma?
A) Brain invasion, high proliferation index, loss of progesterone receptor expression, and necrosis
B) Mitotic activity, vascular proliferation, necrosis
C) IDH mutation, 1q/19q co-deletion
D) Loss of INI1 protein

46) How is Cranipharyngioma treated?
A) Radiation therapy, no resection needed
B) Resected via transphenoid route
C) Steroids
D) Chemotherapy

47) Which type of brain tumor is associated with the characteristic "Fried Egg" appreance on histology?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Meningioma
C) Oligodendroglioma
D) Ependymoma

50) What is the location of a craniopharyngioma?
A) Cerebral hemisphere
B) Pineal gland
C) Sellar region (located at pituitary gland)
D) Spinal cord

53) What is the genetic marker for craniopharyngiomas in adults?
A) BRAF V600E mutation “papillary”
B) Beta-catenin mutation "adamantinomatous"
C) IDH1/2 mutation
D) TP53 mutation

54) What type of tumor should be considered in an adult presenting with seizures out of nowhere?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Metastatic carcinoma
C) Craniopharyngioma
D) Glioblastoma or a Metastatic carcinoma

55) What are the common comorbidities associated with DLBCL?
A) Hypertension and obesity
B) HIV and EBV
C) Diabetes and heart disease
D) Asthma and allergies

57) How are Germ Cell Tumors typically treated?
A) Surgery
B) Radiation therapy
C) Chemotherapy
D) Resection is not needed
E) Radiation therapy becuase resection is not needed
F) Chemotherapy because resection is not needed
G) Resection

58) What is the differential diagnosis for a bone/soft tissue CNS neoplasm which could be a chordoma or chondrosarcoma?
A) Posterior fossa neoplasms
B) Intracranial tumors
C) Skull base mass
D) Supratentorial PNET

62) What is the hallmark mutation found in pilocytic astrocytoma?
A) BRAF V600E mutation
B) TP53 mutation
C) BRAF fusion
D) EGFR mutation
E) BRAF V600E mutation and BRAF fusion

64) Which type of brain tumor is associated with Rosenthal fibers?
A) Oligodendroglioma
B) Astrocytoma
C) Medulloblastoma
D) Pilocytic astrocytoma

65) What is the characteristic genetic marker of a midline glioma with a bad prognosis?
A) Methylated MGMT
B) H3 K27M mutaiton
C) TP53 mutation
D) IDH1/2 mutation

68) Which type of brain tumor is associated with the characteristic "butterfly" appearance with ring enhancements on imaging?
A) Meningioma
B) Glioblastoma
C) Oligodendroglioma
D) Ependymoma

73) Which type of brain tumor is associated with the characteristic "pseudopalisading" necrosis and vascular proliferation pattern on histology?
A) Glioblastoma
B) Meningioma
C) Oligodendroglioma
D) Ependymoma


