1) What is the result of a chromosome 17 NF1 gene mutation in Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1)?
A) Uninhibited RAS signaling
B) Merlin protein dysfunction
C) Altered VHL protein
D) SHH-activated TP53 subtype
Correct answer: A) Uninhibited RAS signaling

2) Which type of tumor is characterized by Rosenthal fibers and eosinophilic accumulation in NF1?
A) Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor (MPNST)
B) Optic Pathway Gliomas/ pilocytic astrocytoma
C) Schwannomas
D) Meningioma
Correct answer: B) Optic Pathway Gliomas/ pilocytic astrocytoma

3) What is a characteristic feature of Plexiform Neurofibromas in NF1?
A) Diffusely S100 (+)
B) Patchy S100 (+)
C) Meningothelial whorls
D) Psammoma bodies
Correct answer: B) Patchy S100 (+)

4) In Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2), a mutation occurs in which chromosome?
A) Chromosome 3
B) Chromosome 22
C) Chromosome 17
D) Chromosome 5
Correct answer: B) Chromosome 22

5) What is the key feature of Schwannomas in NF2?
A) Diffusely S100 (+) with nuclear palisading Verocay bodies
B) Tumor necrosis and pseudopalisading
C) Patchy S100 (+)
D) Rosenthal fibers and eosinophilic accumulation
Correct answer: A) Diffusely S100 (+) with nuclear palisading Verocay bodies

6) What characterizes a Meningioma in NF2?
A) Whorls and psammoma bodies
B) Glial tumor with perivascular pseudorosettes
C) Small round blue tumor
D) Rosenthal fibers and eosinophilic accumulation
Correct answer: A) Whorls and psammoma bodies

7) In Von Hippel Lindaue Syndrome, what is the result of a chromosome 3 VHL gene mutation?
A) Inactivation of neurofibromin protein
B) Merlin protein dysfunction
C) Neoplasms due to altered protein
D) Truncation of the APC protein
Correct answer: C) Altered VHL protein

8) Where is a Hemenagioblastoma typically located in Von Hippel Lindaue Syndrome?
A) Ventricles
B) Abdominal wall
C) Cerebellum
D) Colon and rectum
Correct answer: C) Cerebellum

9) In Li-Fraumeni Syndrome, which gene mutation occurs?
A) TP53 tumor suppressor gene
B) NF1 gene
C) NF2 gene
D) APC gene
Correct answer: A) TP53 tumor suppressor gene

10) What characterizes a Medulloblastoma in Li-Fraumeni Syndrome?
A) Small round blue cell tumor
B) Tumor necrosis and pseudopalisading
C) Meningothelial whorls and psammoma bodies
D) Rosenthal fibers and eosinophilic accumulation
Correct answer: A) Small round blue cell tumor

11) In which syndrome is a heterozygous germline mutation in a mismatch repair gene most likely to occur?
A) Neurofibromatosis 1
B) Neurofibromatosis 2
C) Von Hippel Lindaue Syndrome
D) Mismatch Repair Deficiency Syndrome / Lynch Syndrome
Correct answer: D) Mismatch Repair Deficiency Syndrome / Lynch Syndrome

12) What type of cancers does Mismatch Repair Deficiency Syndrome / Lynch Syndrome commonly cause in adults?
A) Liver and lung cancers
B) Brain and spinal cord tumors
C) Colon/GI & endometrial cancers
D) Breast and ovarian cancers
Correct answer: C) Colon/GI & endometrial cancers

13) In Familial Adenomatous Polyposis (FAP), what is the result of a chromosome 5 APC gene mutation?
A) Inactivation of neurofibromin protein
B) Uninhibited RAS signaling
C) Uncontrolled Wnt signaling pathway
D) Altered VHL protein
Correct answer: C) Uncontrolled Wnt signaling pathway

14) Where are polyps typically found in Familial Adenomatous Polyposis 1?
A) Ventricles
B) Abdominal wall
C) Colon and rectum
D) Cerebellum
Correct answer: C) Colon and rectum

16) Altered TSC2 gene on chromosome 16 with candel wax dirppings seen on histology is concurrent with which clinial findings?
A) SEGA of lateral ventricle with eosinophillic cytoplasm 
B) Neoplastic stomal cells with vacuolated cytoplasm 
C) Pseudopalisading tumor necrosis with vascular proliferation
D) SEGA of lateral ventricle with vacuolated cytoplasm 

17) Which common intraocular malignancy in infants is caused by biallelic mutation of RB1 (chromosome 13) and is characterized by flexner wintersteiner (true) rosettes?
A) Medulloblastoma
B) Retinoblastoma
C) Hemenagioblastoma
D) Choroid Plexus carcinoma
Correct answer: B) Retinoblastoma

18) What histological feature is characteristic of Plexiform Neurofibromas in Neurofibromatosis 1?
A) Spindled cells
B) "Shredded carrot" collagen
C) Psammoma bodies
D) Perivascular pseudorosette
Correct answer: B) "Shredded carrot" collagen

19) Which of the following is a histological feature of Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumors (MPNST) in Neurofibromatosis 1?
A) Eosinophilic cytoplasm
B) Spindled cells, hypercellular, increased mitosis, and necrosis
C) Vacuolated cytoplasm
D) Nuclear palisading Verocay bodies
Correct answer: B) Spindled cells, hypercellular, increased mitosis, and necrosis

20) In Tuberous Sclerosis, where is the TSC1 gene located?
A) Chromosome 5
B) Chromosome 9
C) Chromosome 16
D) Chromosome 22
Correct answer: B) Chromosome 9

