1) What are the different types of headaches?
A) Migraine, tension, cluster, cervicogenic
B) Migraine, tension, cluster, sinus
C) Migraine, tension, cluster, occipital
D) Migraine, tension, cluster, temporal

2) What are the characteristics of a migraine headache?
A) Unilateral, throbbing-pulsating pain, photo/phonophobia
B) Bilateral, stabbing pain, photophobia
C) Unilateral, sharp pain, phonophobia
D) Bilateral, dull pain, photophobia

3) What is an aura in the context of migraines?
A) An area of tissue death in the brain
B) A visual, motor, or speech deficit that cues onset of migraine headache
C) A type of headache that affects both sides of the head
D) A feeling of numbness or tingling in the limbs

4) What are the triggers for headaches?
A) Diet, hormones, stress, change in environments or habits
B) Exercise, dehydration, lack of sleep, overstimulation
C) Genetics, age, gender, weather changes
D) Medication, drug use, alcohol consumption, caffeine intake

5) What is the treatment for nausea associated with migraines?
A) Triptans
B) Prochlorperazine
C) Acetaminophen
D) NSAIDs

6) What is the first-line abortive treatment for migraine pain?
A) Triptans
B) Acetaminophen
C) NSAIDs
D) Fioricet

7) What are the preventative treatments for migraines?
A) Calcium channel blockers, B-blocker, TCA's, anti-psychotics, Vit-B2
B) Calcium channel blockers, B-blocker, TCA's, anti-depressants, Vit-C
C) Beta-agonists, alpha-agonists, GABA agonists, anti-epileptics
D) ACE inhibitors, ARBs, aldosterone antagonists, vasodilators

8) What are the characteristics of cluster headaches?
A) Repetitive, unilateral, behind the eye, excruciating pain, lacrimation, red eye, rhinorrhea
B) Bilateral, throbbing pain, nausea, vomiting
C) Unilateral, sharp pain, photophobia, phonophobia
D) Bilateral, dull pain, pressure around head

9) What is the first-line abortive treatment for cluster headaches?
A) Triptans
B) Acetaminophen
C) NSAIDs
D) Oxygen

10) What is the first-line preventative treatment for cluster headaches?
A) Calcium channel blocker
B) Beta-blocker
C) Indomethacin
D) Oxygen

11) What are the characteristics of tension headaches?
A) Pressure-tight band around head, associated with stress, no nausea, vomiting, photophobia or auras
B) Unilateral, sharp pain, photophobia, phonophobia
C) Bilateral, dull pain, pressure around head, nausea, vomiting
D) Repetitive, unilateral, behind the eye, excruciating pain, lacrimation, red eye, rhinorrhea

12) What is the first-line treatment for tension headaches?
A) Triptans
B) Acetaminophen
C) NSAIDs
D) Antidepressants

13) What is a rebound headache?
A) A headache that occurs during sleep
B) A headache that occurs after consuming certain foods or drinks
C) A headache that occurs after physical exertion
D) A daily headache in a patient with overuse of NSAIDs, Tylenol, or narcotics to treat headaches

14) What is the treatment for rebound headaches?
A) Prophylactic TCA and slowly withdraw from offending medication
B) Oxygen therapy
C) Acupuncture
D) Physical therapy

