1) What does hypoxia refer to?
A) Lack of blood circulation
B) Lack of oxygen
C) Death of tissue
D) Excessive blood flow

2) Which of these is a consequence of ischemia?
A) Hyperoxygenation
B) Excessive blood flow
C) Hypoxia
D) Vasodilation

3) What is an infarction?
A) Excessive blood flow
B) Tissue death due to hypoxia
C) Tissue death due to hyperoxygenation
D) Lack of blood circulation

4) Which term describes the effects on the entire brain?
A) Global hypoxia and Localized ischemia
B) Global hypoxia
C) Localized ischemia
D) Generalized ischemia

5) What are red neurons?
A) Neurons that are resistant to ischemia
B) Neurons that have been oxygenated
C) Ischemic neurons
D) Neurons that are resistant to hypoxia

6) Which part of the brain is most sensitive to ischemia?
A) Basal ganglia
B) Purkinje cells
C) Sommer's sector of the hippocampus
D) Purkinje cells and Sommer's sector of the hippocampus

7) What does laminar necrosis initially affect?
A) Entire thickness of the cortex
B) Watershed areas
C) Cortex layers
D) Basal ganglia

8) Which of these is NOT a sign of brain death?
A) Isoelectric (flat) EEG
B) Abscense of Perfusion and Reflexes
C) Slow resperations
D) Respirator Brain

9) Focal hypoxia or ischemia is typically caused by:
A) A widespread decrease in blood circulation
B) An occluded blood vessel
C) General anesthesia
D) Hyperventilation

10) Where do most emboli in the brain travel through?
A) Anterior cerebral artery
B) Middle cerebral artery
C) Posterior cerebral artery
D) Internal carotid artery

11) Which of the following differentiates a thrombus from an embolus?
A) A thrombus is local and remains in place, while an embolus migrates to a vessel
B) A thrombus is a clot that travels, while an embolus remains in place
C) A thrombus is formed by atherosclerosis, while an embolus is formed by hypertension
D) A thrombus is formed by an infection, while an embolus is formed by atherosclerosis

12) Hemorrhagic infarcts are caused by:
A) Embolism
B) Reperfusion
C) Vasospasm
D) All of the above

13) What causes ischemic infarctions?
A) Atherosclerosis
B) Thrombosis
C) Embolism
D) All of the above

14) Red neurons typically appear after:
A) 12-24 hours
B) 2-7 days
C) 2-3 weeks
D) 6-8+ weeks

15) Which type of hemorrhage is usually caused by hypertension?
A) Subarachnoid hemorrhage
B) Intracerebral hemorrhage
C) Epidural hematoma
D) Subdural hematoma

16) What are the common locations for hypertension-induced intracerebral hemorrhages?
A) Basal ganglia, thalamus, and pons
B) Cortex and hippocampus
C) Pons and medulla
D) Cerebellum and brainstem

17) Which type of aneurysm is commonly found in the subarachnoid space?
A) Saccular
B) Atherosclerotic (fusiform)
C) Mycotic
D) Dissecting

18) Mycotic aneurysms are caused by:
A) Infection or septic emboli
B) Atherosclerosis
C) Hypertension
D) Vascular malformations

19) Which vascular malformation is typically found in the white matter and is associated with caput medusa?
A) Arteriovenous malformation (AVM)
B) Cavernous hemangioma
C) Venous malformation
D) Capillary telangiectasia

20) Vasogenic edema is caused by:
A) Fluid in the intracellular compartment due to cellular membrane injury
B) Fluid in the extracellular space due to blood-brain barrier problems
C) Excessive blood flow
D) Increase of capillary hydrostatic pressure

21) What is the main cause of stroke?
A) Arterial issues
B) Blood hypercoagulability
C) Cardiac issues ( a-fib or clots)
D) All of the above

22) Atherosclerosis typically involves:
A) Small arteries
B) Large arteries
C) Veins
D) Capillaries

23) What is the primary cause of cardiac strokes?
A) Atrial fibrillation (Irregular heartbeat impacting L atrium)
B) Myocardial infarction
C) Cardiomyopathy
D) Valvular heart disease

24) Which medication is a vitamin K antagonist used for thromboembolism prevention?
A) Warfarin
B) Dabigatran
C) Rivaroxaban
D) Apixaban

25) Thrombi formed in the left atrium due to atrial fibrillation can lead to:
A) Myocardial infarction
B) Venous thrombosis
C) Stroke
D) Pulmonary embolism

26) The appearance of acute neuronal injury includes:
A) Eosinophilic neuronal necrosis (red neurons)
B) Dark, smudgy chromatin
C) Eosinophilic shrunken cytoplasm
D) All of the above

27) What is the area of potentially salvageable brain tissue around an infarction called?
A) Penumbra
B) Ischemic core
C) Cerebral vasculature
D) Infarct zone

28) Intracerebral hemorrhage can be induced by:
A) Hypertension 
B) Cerebral amyloid angiopathy 
C) Vascular malformations
D) All of the above

29) Which type of brain herniation can compress the third cranial nerve and the PCA?
A) Cingulate herniation
B) Uncal herniation and Transtentorial herniation
C) Uncal herniation
D) Transtentorial herniation
E) Tonsillar herniation
F) Cingulate herniation and Tonsillar herniation

30) Kernohan's notch is associated with:
A) Cingulate herniation (high ICP = cingulate gyrus forced under edge of falx cerebri)
B) Transtentorial herniation (opposite side of brain stem compressed against tentorium) 
C) Uncal herniation  (CN3 and PCA compression, pupillary dialation, vision loss) 
D) Tonsillar herniation 
E) Transtentorial herniation (opposite side of brain stem compressed against tentorium) and Uncal herniation  (CN3 and PCA compression, pupillary dialation, vision loss) 

31) What is the main consideration for a coagulation disorder in a stroke patient?
A) Age over 70
B) Multiple unexplained strokes
C) Patient has a history of diabetes
D) Patient has a history of hypertension

32) Which type of edema is caused by fluid in the intracellular compartment due to cellular membrane injury?
A) Vasogenic edema
B) Cytotoxic edema
C) Hydrostatic edema
D) Osmotic edema

33) In a patient with intracranial hemorrhage, which symptom is a non-neurological cue?
A) Severe headache
B) High blood pressure
C) Meningismus
D) Nasuea

34) Which type of infarction can result from occlusion of a blood vessel followed by a buildup of pressure in the vessel, leading to bleeding?
A) Ischemic infarction
B) Hemorrhagic infarction
C) Cerebral infarction
D) Myocardial infarction

35) What is the treatment for symptomatic carotid stenosis?
A) Carotid endarterectomy
B) Angioplasty and stenting
C) Anticoagulant therapy
D) Antiplatelet therapy

36) Which type of aneurysm is often caused by atherosclerosis?
A) Saccular aneurysm
B) Fusiform aneurysm
C) Mycotic aneurysm
D) Dissecting aneurysm

37) Which type of intracranial hemorrhage is typically found where the internal carotid artery enters the cranium?
A) Hypertension-induced
B) Cerebral amyloid angiopathy-induced
C) Subarachnoid hemorrhage
D) Epidural hematoma

38) What is the main cause of arterial strokes?
A) Hypoperfusion
B) Thrombosis
C) Embolisms
D) All of the above

40) Which of the following is a thrombin inhibitor used for thromboembolism prevention?
A) Warfarin
B) Dabigatran
C) Rivaroxaban
D) Apixaban

41) What is the most common presentation in patients with stroke and coagulation disorders?
A) Ischemic stroke
B) Hemorrhagic stroke
C) Venous thrombosis
D) Arterial thrombosis

42) Cholesterol crystal clefts are highly suggestive of:
A) Thromboembolism
B) Atheroembolus
C) Venous thrombosis
D) Arterial thrombosis

43) Which type of brain herniation can lead to compression of the opposite side of the brainstem against the tentorium?
A) Cingulate herniation
B) Transtentorial herniation
C) Uncal herniation
D) Tonsillar herniation
E) Transtentorial herniation and Uncal herniation
F) Cingulate herniation and Tonsillar herniation

44) In which type of edema is fluid found in the extracellular space due to a problem with the blood-brain barrier?
A) Vasogenic edema
B) Cytotoxic edema
C) Hydrostatic edema
D) Osmotic edema

45) Which type of intracranial hemorrhage is typically caused by vascular malformations?
A) Subarachnoid hemorrhage
B) Intracerebral hemorrhage
C) Epidural hematoma
D) Subdural hematoma

46) Which of the following is a cause of focal hypoxia/ischemia?
A) Hypoxia due to occluded blood vessel
B) Hypoxia due to respiratory failure
C) Hypoxia due to anemia
D) Hypoxia due to high altitude
